I'm Captain Steve Draconis with national
baskets we're teaching you how to cast a
spinning rod and now I'm going to show
you how important the rod can be and
using that rod to help you cast if
you're casting left-handed we've talked
about casting off your left shoulder
well you can also cast off your right
shoulder there's somebody standing to
your left you want to do that for safety
reasons so you want to make a cast like
this if you're trying to get underneath
cover you can cast off to the side you
can also cast off to the side this way
if you're right-handed same thing grip
the rod the same way that we showed you
bring the rod back off your right
shoulder either off your left shoulder
you can kind of backhand it this way or
forehand it this way low to keep it
underneath cover these are always great
techniques to learn you learn how to do
these it will help you hit different
angles in different spots that's the
equivalent of driving if you're a golfer
if you're putting you need to use
clothes in casting and for that we use a
technique called pitching the first
thing we do is we get debate about even
with the real handle we're going to go
ahead and load it just like we normally
would get the roller bearing up near our
index finger open up the bail and now
we're going to grip the bait above the
bait on the line to learn how to do this
technique what we're going to do is put
the rod horizontal I always tuck it in
underneath my arm just let the big drop
you could feel it swing away from you
just let the beat drop I'm not moving
anything else I'm not moving the rod I'm
not loading up the rod this is a
self-correcting issue if you
accidentally let it go it'll drive that
hook into your finger so just hold it
like this let it go and it'll swing away
from you we're not going to push it out
like that we're not going to use our
arms to get it out there what we're
going to do is just hold the rod drop
the bait let it swing away once we've
practiced that a couple of times then
we're going to lower the rod raise the
rod and now we have a lot more momentum
so that we can pitch this thing a lot
further it's a very close in technique
so all we're going to do is really look
to pick a very close in target and
release it let it go and then we're
ready to pitch so again lift up the rod
grab the line lower the rod lift the rod
release debate
now you've made a pitch coming up next
we're going to teach you how to aim and
the proper release for every cast to
watch the other segments in this video
series or for how-to videos on almost
any other topic visit monkey-see calm